这篇文章很好：[Google Publisher Tags and React Playing in Harmony](https://www.omardelarosa.com/posts/gpt-and-react)

Doing Google Publisher Tags the React Way
For all the wonders Webpack and Babel have brought to Front-End JavaScript, the modern, modular applications you build with those tools don’t play well with third-party, drop-this-JavaScript-snippet-in-the-head-tag libraries.

For example, Google Publisher Tag (aka GPT) has a great API and lots of clear documentation. Unfortunately, they expect something clunky and external to your nice, modern bundled ES2017 application. They expect something like this at the top of your markup:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <script
      async="async"
      src="https://www.googletagservices.com/tag/js/gpt.js"
    ></script>
    <script>
      var googletag = googletag || {};
      googletag.cmd = googletag.cmd || [];
    </script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="root"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

Meanwhile, the rest of your modern, modular, ES2017 application code looks like a jumble of () => {} Arrow Functions, class keywords, const and let and import and ... and… you get the idea.

By comparison, GPT’s closure-y architecture feels retro.

Reconciling Retro Libraries with Modern Application Code
Alright, so very recently, I was working on a project in which I needed to fix a race condition between GPT and a React component. What would happen was that React would render the DOM (including all the ad containers), fire all their respective component-lifecycle events before GPT was ready.

After treading water and pulling my hair out for hours, I stumbled upon a very simple way to keep everything in sync.

First, you need do load GPT in your head tag. Duh:

var googletag = googletag || {};
googletag.cmd = googletag.cmd || [];
Now you can let the <script async="async" src="https://www.googletagservices.com/tag/js/gpt.js"> take its sweet time loading, because you have that handy-dandy cmd Array.

According to this one Google article about avoiding implementation mistakes, this handy cmd Array can be your best friend.

Assuming a React situation kinda of like this:

```js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { render } from 'react-dom';

class AdUnit extends Component {
    componentDidMount() {
      this.beginGPTsetup();
    }

    beginGPTSetup = () => {
      // Begin GPT slot rendering, etc.
    }

    render() {
      return (
        <div id='ad-selector-abc'></div>
      );
    }
  }

class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>My Application Heading</h1>
        <div>Content Fragment 1</div>
        <AdUnit />
        <div>Content Fragment 2</div>
      <div>
    )
  }
}
```

render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));

As much as you can control what happens inside You can never really guarantee that GPT will be ready and fully loaded by the time your <App /> goes to render the <AdUnit />.

However, with a few modifications, you can use React’s own state to control your timing and avoid race conditions.

Let’s add a few lifecycle methods to the App component:

```js
class App extends Component {
  // Create an initial state.
  state = {
    // Ensure that the GPTHasLoaded boolean is false
    GPTHasLoaded: false
  }

  componentWillMount() {
  	// Let's destructure the cmd array out of GPT.
  	const { googletag: { cmd }} = window;

  	// Feel free to get really paranoid here and check for Array-ness, too.
  	if (cmd) {
  		// Enqueue a function onto GPT
  		cmd.push(() => this.setState({ GPTHasLoaded: true });
  	}
  }

  render() {
  	// Reference the GPT boolean here.
  	const { state: { GPTHasLoaded }} = this;
  	return (
  		<div>
  			<h1>My Application Heading</h1>
  			<div>Content Fragment 1</div>
  			{ GPTHasLoaded && <AdUnit /> }
  			<div>Content Fragment 2</div>
  		<div>
    )
  }
}
```

And voila! Now React’s own lifecycle methods will take care of avoiding race conditions.

The secret lies in how this little guy:

```js
cmd.push(() => this.setState({ GPTHasLoaded: true });
```

Kind of combines the best of both GPT and React in one little lambda callback of goodness.

Because googletag’s cmd queue is automatically picked up once GPT is ready, it will process your setState if and only if GPT has loaded. Or in their words:

googletag.cmd maintains a list of commands that will be run as soon as GPT is ready. This is the correct way to make sure your callback is run when GPT has loaded.

This avoids using any event-listeners or clumsy googletag.apiReady checks or scriptEl.onload = function () {}-style callbacks.

Instead, you let React be React and GPT be GPT. A shiny, new modern library working in tandem with a semi-retro, closure-y one.

[ Insert GIF of React logo shaking hands with Google For Publishers Logo Here ]
